From:	Cogswell, Andrew
Sent:	September-29-16 2:20 PM
To:	Lazin, Gordana; Johnson, Catherine; Devred, Emmanuel; Bond, Shelley A; 
Casault, Benoit
Cc:	Benjamin, Robert
Subject:	RE: depth in biochem

Hi Gordana,

Yes, we see this very often to varying degrees.  The way these data are entered into BioChem is useful 
despite the discrepancy between nominal and actual bottle depths.  The nominal depths allow for an 
efficient means of extracting data from the database based on defined criteria, but the pressure values 
would allow the analyst to further refine/filter these data for final analysis.  For some analyses a 5 m or 
3% error between nominal and actual could be totally fine, and for other analyses this level of 
discrepancy would be unacceptable.

As you say below:  “ we can continue with current practice but make sure that the users are aware of 
the “DEPTH” column meaning.”

The longer term goal is to separate the CTD sensor data (ODF Archive) from the BioChem discrete data 
(laboratory analysis).  The meta-data in BioChem would represent our sampling intent (nominal depths) 
while the associated CTD sensor data in the ODF/QAT file archives would represent sampling reality.  For 
now however, my personal opinion is to leave it as it is and allow the analyst to refine these data to suit 
their needs (with the further description you suggest above).

Andrew



From: Lazin, Gordana  
Sent: 2016–September-20 4:59 PM 
To: Johnson, Catherine; Cogswell, Andrew; Devred, Emmanuel; Bond, Shelley A; Casault, Benoit 
Cc: Benjamin, Robert 
Subject: depth in biochem

Hi All,

As a part of QC of bottle data for BioChem reload I am comparing “nominal depth” at which bottles are 
supposed to be fired and “pressure” at which the bottles are actually fired.  In many cases there are 
discrepancies between nominal depth and actual pressure.  For example, a bottle fired at 2.9 m and the 
one fired at 17 m can be both associated with 10 m nominal depth.

Current practice for BioChem is to record nominal depth in DEPTH column and include pressure in 
PRESSURE column, so they are both available in BioChem.

My questions is: If there is a large discrepancy between nominal depth and pressure, should we be 
changing nominal depth as part of QC to better reflect actual depth?

If so, what would be considered “large discrepancy” for science purposes?

If not, we can continue with current practice but make sure that the users are aware of the “DEPTH” 
column meaning.

I am attaching an example of a cruise to show both nominal depths (depth_bs column) and associated 
pressure (pressure_qat, last column).

Thanks for your input, Gordana 


Gordana Lazin
Data Acquisition, Assembly and Distribution | Acquisition, assemblage et distribution de données
Program Coordination and Support Division | Division de la coordination et soutien des programmes 
Science Branch | Direction des Sciences
Maritimes Region | Région des Maritimes
Fisheries and Oceans Canada |Pêches et Océans Canada
Bedford Institute of Oceanography | Institut océanographique de Bedford 
1 Challenger Drive, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia  B2Y 4A2  
Telephone | Téléphone 902-426-2245
Facsimile | Télécopieur 902-426-1843
Government of Canada | Gouvernement du Canada

If you have received this communication by mistake, please notify the sender immediately and 
delete the communication without printing, copying or forwarding it. Thank you. 

Si vous avez reçu cette communication par erreur, veuillez en aviser l'expéditeur immédiatement 
et la supprimer sans l'imprimer, la copier, ou la faire suivre. Merci.


