From:	Cogswell, Andrew
Sent:	November-30-16 11:51 AM
To:	Bond, Shelley A; Lazin, Gordana
Subject:	RE: station names

Hi Shelley,

I think the external document sounds good but only after the reload is complete.  Ideally this sort of 
document would accompany a GUI that people could use for extraction.

Yes, you are right about the event level comments.  I guess what I meant is really some documentation 
at the “mission” level, not the event, but I’m not sure this is possible?

Andrew



From: Bond, Shelley A  
Sent: November-30-16 10:59 AM 
To: Lazin, Gordana; Cogswell, Andrew 
Subject: RE: station names

Thanks for forwarding this discussion to me Gordana.

Andrew, a comment at the event level means a comment for each and every record, that doesn’t make 
sense to me.  Or are you saying the database documentation should include this possibility, the tech 
report has been published already, not sure when we’d do the next iteration.  Otherwise Gordana would 
still need to ID every station this may have happened on and include the comment for each of those 
stations, still a lot of work without the benefit of the issue being dealt with.

Wonder if we need to include a brief doc to external users with data that contains various known issues 
as a boiler plate kind of thing?

Shelley Bond 
Team Lead
Data Acquisition, Assembly and Distribution | Acquisition, assemblage et distribution de données
Program Coordination and Support Division | Division de la coordination et soutien des programmes 
Science Branch | Direction des Sciences
Maritimes Region | Région des Maritimes
Fisheries and Oceans Canada |Pêches et Océans Canada 
1 Challenger Drive, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia  B2Y 4A2  
Shelley.Bond@dfo-mpo.gc.ca  
Telephone | Téléphone   902 426-1473 
Government of Canada | Gouvernement du Canada

If you have received this communication by mistake, please notify the sender immediately and 
delete the communication without printing, copying or forwarding it. Thank you. 
Si vous avez reçu cette communication par erreur, veuillez en aviser l'expéditeur 
immédiatement et la supprimer sans l'imprimer, la copier, ou la faire suivre. Merci. 




From: Lazin, Gordana  
Sent: November 30, 2016 10:10 AM 
To: Bond, Shelley A 
Subject: FW: station names

I don’t think you got this.  

From: Cogswell, Andrew  
Sent: November-29-16 4:08 PM 
To: Johnson, Catherine; Brickman, David; Devred, Emmanuel; Greenan, Blair; Hebert, David; Ringuette, 
Marc 
Cc: Lazin, Gordana 
Subject: RE: station names

Hi Catherine,  

Thank you for the comments.

OK, this is consistent with what I said to Gordana.  I agree, it is not unique.  Gordana’s concern is that for 
those clients external to AZMP/AZOMP that this might be more of an issue than internal clients that are 
already aware that data should be extracted based on a buffer around nominal locations rather than 
station names.  I don’t think it is a worthwhile way to spend ODIS/AZMP time trying to track down all 
instances of this error given the enormity of the data management tasks that are currently on our 
plates.  We could come back to it at a later date and adjust if the time is available, but I think a comment 
in the event table in BioChem identifying the issue might be easiest for now.

Andrew  

From: Johnson, Catherine  
Sent: November-29-16 3:11 PM 
To: Cogswell, Andrew; Brickman, David; Devred, Emmanuel; Greenan, Blair; Hebert, David; Ringuette, 
Marc 
Cc: Lazin, Gordana 
Subject: RE: station names

That is confusing, but I am not sure it is truly unique given the station name issues we’ve worked 
through in the past.

First, it will be necessary to make sure that there is no error in labelling by checking other station 
properties like depth for consistency. Second, do cruise reports exist for missions with anomalous 
station names to provide guidance on the intended names? If so,  perhaps the names could be corrected 
in all sources and databases. We generally extract data based on location or sample ID because the 
names have not been consistent, so this may not be as much of an issue as it might otherwise be, but it 
will be potentially confusing. Can discuss further if needed. 

Catherine

From: Cogswell, Andrew  
Sent: November-29-16 2:59 PM 
To: Brickman, David; Cogswell, Andrew; Devred, Emmanuel; Greenan, Blair; Hebert, David; Johnson, 
Catherine; Ringuette, Marc 
Cc: Lazin, Gordana 
Subject: FW: station names

Hello Everyone,

Unique problem here.  If you open the link that Gordana has provided and click on the SIB section 
between HL and LL, you’ll see that some of the SIB stations (specifically SIB6-8) have different names 
depending on the year they were sampled (yikes). I’m not sure this is a problem that we can go back and 
fix because it is now reflected in the associated cruise reports and all subsequent analyses, but we might 
include a comment at the Event level in BioChem that analysis should be done by location, not station 
name (at least when the stations are not part of the core program).  Please let me know what you think 
so I can inform Gordana of the way forward on this.  

This is not an issue now for AZMP (2013 – present), but we’ve inherited it and now it is our problem as 
with so many other data management issues.

Andrew

From: Lazin, Gordana  
Sent: November-29-16 1:51 PM 
To: Cogswell, Andrew 
Cc: Bond, Shelley A 
Subject: station names

Hi Andrew,

I almost sorted out AZMP spring and fall metadata and I just noticed that certain locations sometimes 
have different station names. For example, one location was called SIB_07 on  6 missions and  SIB_08 on 
4 missions. I checked paper trail and it seems like the stations names/locations were assigned differently 
in the sailing instructions, but are consistent in the bridge log and ctd deck sheets for each cruise, so it 
was not a typo issue.

I am attaching HTML file with the map. If you click on it,  it will open in your browser and you can zoom 
in. I did not look through all clusters of stations but so far I found that SIB line is affected.

What do you think we should do about it, if anything? It will be a problem when scientists try to 
aggregate data by station names.

Thanks, Gordana
